Clean up authn and authz relationship in the intro (#425)
ietf-wg-privacypass/base-drafts: draft-ietf-privacypass-architecture.md

--- abstract

This document specifies the Privacy Pass architecture and requirements for
its constituent protocols used for authorization based on privacy-preserving
authentication mechanisms. It describes the conceptual model of Privacy Pass
and its protocols, its security and privacy goals, practical deployment models,
and recommendations for each deployment model that helps ensure the desired
security and privacy goals are fulfilled.

--- middle

# Introduction

Privacy Pass is an architecture for authorization based on privacy-preserving
authentication mechanisms. In other words, relying parties authenticate clients
in a privacy-preserving way, i.e., without learning any unique, per-client
information through the authentication protocol, and then make authorization
decisions on the basis of that authentication suceeding or failing. Possible
authorization decisions might be to provide clients with read access to a

> particular resource or write access to a particular API.

Reviewer: I find the use of "API" here to be a bit odd. I would lean towards implying this and just saying that the authorization allows clients to access a resource.

Author: Works for me!

> particular resource or write access to a particular API.

Author: ```suggestion
particular resource or write access to a particular resource.
```

{{deployment}} discusses deployment models that are possible in practice.
Beyond possible implications on security and privacy properties of the
resulting system, Privacy Pass deployments can impact the overall ecosystem
in two important ways: (1) discriminatory treatment of Clients and the gated
access to otherwise open services, and (2) centralization. This section
describes considerations relevant to these topics.

## Discriminatory Treatment

Origins can use tokens as a signal for distinguishing between Clients
that are capable of completing attestation with one Attester trusted by the
Origin's chosen Issuer, and Clients that are not capable of doing the same. A
consequence of this is that Privacy Pass could enable discriminatory treatment
of Clients based on Attestation support. For example, an Origin could only
authorize Clients that successfully authenticate with a token, prohibiting access

> to all other Clients. If the Attestation is not equitable, this can yield

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to all other Clients. If the Attestation is not equally available to all legitimate clients, this can yield
```

Author: I don't think we can say this without also defining what legitimate means, and I don't think we have a good definition. That's why I went with equitable.

Reviewer: I feel that "equitable" is not necessarily clearly defined here either. That seems to imply some broader statement, as opposed to just saying that "anyone who should be able to pass the bar can". If the use for a particular token is saying "you have a legitimate account to use this privacy proxy or OHTTP relay", then it's OK for that to be limited. If the use is to access a website, it needs to be open to all browsers. Etc, etc.

Author: I agree, neither are really clearly defined. What if we just gave examples (like those which you listed)?

Reviewer: Sure, maybe giving more concrete examples is the best route here.

Author: @tfpauly please take a look at the latest version and let me know what you think?
